docs/walkthrough/vaccination-net.md, before:

# Vaccination Use Case for .NET Core

--8<----
walkthrough/snippets/intro-infrastructure.md
--8<----

## Configure services

```csharp
var walletService = new WalletService("<ECOSYSTEM SERVICE URL>");
```

## Setup wallet profiles

Let's create three different profiles, each connected to a separate wallet. Since we are using a single console app for this demo, we will simply set the active profile before each interaction to designate which actor is currently taking action.
To create a new wallet profile, we use the [Create Wallet](/reference/services/wallet-service/#create-wallet) feature.

```csharp
// SETUP ACTORS
// Create 3 different profiles for each participant in the scenario
var alice = await walletService.CreateWallet();
var clinic = await walletService.CreateWallet();
var venue = await walletService.CreateWallet();
```


??? example "Run example in Replit"
    <iframe frameborder="0" width="100%" height="650px" src="https://replit.com/@trinsic/VaccinationSample-dotnet?lite=true"></iframe>

Commit message:

Technical requirements and project setup

docs/walkthrough/vaccination-net.md, after:

# Vaccination Use Case for .NET Core

--8<----
walkthrough/snippets/intro-infrastructure.md
walkthrough/snippets/intro-use-case.md
--8<----

## Technical requirements

You can run this example on your local machine, or you can use our Gitpod setup to bootstrap a full development environment. If running locally, you only need .NET Core installed. We will use the dotnet CLI and the editor of your choice.

## Create new project

Let's create a new .NET console app that we will use to add our sample code.

```bash
dotnet new console -n VaccinationSample && cd VaccinationSample
```

Let's add the required dependencies

```bash
dotnet add package Trinsic --prerelease
dotnet add package Okapi.Net --prerelease
```

!!! note ""
    The package `Okapi.Net` is already a dependency of `Trinsic` package, but we must add explicitly to bring in static library dependencies.
    This will not be required in future version and only package `Trinsic` can be used.

## Configure services

```csharp
var walletService = new WalletService("<ECOSYSTEM SERVICE URL>");
```

## Setup wallet profiles

Let's create three different profiles, each connected to a separate wallet. Since we are using a single console app for this demo, we will simply set the active profile before each interaction to designate which actor is currently taking action.
To create a new wallet profile, we use the [Create Wallet](/reference/services/wallet-service/#create-wallet) feature.

```csharp
// SETUP ACTORS
// Create 3 different profiles for each participant in the scenario
var alice = await walletService.CreateWallet();
var clinic = await walletService.CreateWallet();
var venue = await walletService.CreateWallet();
```


??? example "Run example in Replit"
    <iframe frameborder="0" width="100%" height="650px" src="https://replit.com/@trinsic/VaccinationSample-dotnet?lite=true"></iframe>
