docs/reference/services/trust-registry-service.md, before:

# Trust Registry

In many real-world credential exchange scenarios, a credential holder or verifier has the question “How do I know the issuer of this credential is trustworthy?”

Credential holders may also be uneasy about sharing information with a verifier if trust in the verifier has not been established.

These problems can be solved by having a trusted third party vouch for the trustworthiness of a credential exchange participant.

A trust registry is a list of authorized issuers and verifiers in the ecosystem and the types of credentials and passes they are authorized to issue and verify.

<diagram/>

## Specification
The Trust over IP Foundation has a specification for an interoperable trust registry. 
This defines an API interface so that trust registries can be queried in the same way.
Our implementation is based off of this [trust registry spec](https://github.com/trustoverip/tswg-trust-registry-tf).

## API Reference

### Create a Ecosystem Governance Framework

An ecosystem governance framework is useful because it provides a good basis for verifying issuers and verifiers. It's a json-ld document that lists the issuers and verifiers. These issuers and verifiers are identified by a decentralized identifier. The governance framework is signified by an identifier as well. This can be used to represent the governance framework outside in the credential that it comes in. 

{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry register-efg
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterGovernanceFramework](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.AddFramework") }}


### Register Issuers
Each entity on the governance framework, whether an issuer or a verifier, is represented by a decentralized identifier. These entities are registered to either issue or verify specific credential types. A credential type is represented as a fully qualified `type` URI, of the kind found in a JSON-LD Verifiable Credential.
Finally, each entity must be registered on a specific governance framework. 

{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry register-issuer \
            --egf http://hl7.org/fhir \
            --credential-type https://w3id.org/vaccination#VaccinationCertificate \
            --did did:example:fabre
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.RegisterMember") }}


### Unregister Issuers
To unregister an issuer, include the credential type, the did, and the ecosystem governance framework. The credential type will be unregistered from that issuer.

{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry unregister-issuer \
            --egf http://hl7.org/fhir \
            --credential-type https://w3id.org/vaccination#VaccinationCertificate \
            --did did:example:fabre
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.UnregisterMember") }}



### Check Issuer Status
Check the status of an issuer for a credential type within a given governance framework. Returns all historical data for the given input parameter.

{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry check-issuer \
            --egf http://hl7.org/fhir \
            --credential-type https://w3id.org/vaccination#VaccinationCertificate \
            --did did:example:fabre
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.GetMembershipStatus") }}

### Search
Search the registry for authoritative issuer and verifiers using a custom query in a SQL format.

{{ proto_sample_start() }}

    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry search --query <SQL query>
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->
    
{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.SearchRegistry") }}

### Cache Offline Registry File

=== "Trinsic CLI"
    ```bash
    trinsic trust-registry download 
    ```

Commit message:

Trust Registry page pass; add `Trust Registries` concepts page

docs/reference/services/trust-registry-service.md, after:

# Trust Registry Service

The Trust Registry Service exposes functionality for managing [Trust Registries](/learn/trust-registries) -- lists of authorized issuers for the various credential types within an ecosystem.

!!! warning "Under Construction"
    This section -- and the underlying API -- is under active development.

    We are working to define exactly how Trust Registries will be implemented within our platform; this page and API may change as we do so.

---

## Create Governance Framework

Creates a Governance Framework and attaches it to the current ecosystem.

{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry register-efg
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterGovernanceFramework](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:registerGovernanceFramework
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.AddFramework") }}

---

## Register Issuer

Registers an authorized issuer for a specific credential type (identified by its `schema_uri`).

{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry register-issuer \
            --egf http://hl7.org/fhir \
            --credential-type https://w3id.org/vaccination#VaccinationCertificate \
            --did did:example:fabre
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:registerIssuerSample
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.RegisterMember") }}

---

## Unregister Issuer

Unregisters an issuer for a specific credential type (identified by its `schema_uri`).


{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry unregister-issuer \
            --egf http://hl7.org/fhir \
            --credential-type https://w3id.org/vaccination#VaccinationCertificate \
            --did did:example:fabre
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:unregisterIssuer
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.UnregisterMember") }}

---

## Check Issuer Status
Check the status of an issuer for a specific credential type.

{{ proto_sample_start() }}
    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry check-issuer \
            --egf http://hl7.org/fhir \
            --credential-type https://w3id.org/vaccination#VaccinationCertificate \
            --did did:example:fabre
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:checkIssuerStatus
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.GetMembershipStatus") }}

---

## Search
Search the registry for registered issuers using a SQL query.

{{ proto_sample_start() }}

    === "Trinsic CLI"
        ```bash
        trinsic trust-registry search --query <SQL query>
        ```

    === "C#"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```csharp
        [CreateProof](../../../dotnet/Tests/Tests.cs) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Python"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```python
        [Insert Item Wallet](../../../python/samples/trustregistry_demo.py) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Go"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```golang
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../go/services/services_test.go) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->

    === "Java"
        <!--codeinclude-->
        ```java
        [RegisterIssuer](../../../java/src/test/java/trinsic/TrustRegistryDemo.java) inside_block:searchTrustRegistry
        ```
        <!--/codeinclude-->
    
{{ proto_method_tabs("services.trustregistry.v1.TrustRegistry.SearchRegistry") }}

---

## Cache Offline Registry File

=== "Trinsic CLI"
    ```bash
    trinsic trust-registry download 
    ```
