docs/learn/index.md, before:

# What is Trinsic?
![Trust Triangle](/_static/images/trust-triangle.png)

Trinsic is a developer platform to exchange verifiable credentials.

Verifiable Credentials transform credentials, licenses, passes, and certificates into a W3C standard format that can be exchanged digitally and verified instantly. Unlike a paper document or html form, when information from a verifiable credential is shared, it can be instantly proven to be authentic.

They require no centralized authority or proprietary technology to use - verifiable credentials are built on interoperable standards  designed to be open, privacy-preserving, and distributed like the internet itself.

Hundreds of organizations of all sizes and industries use Trinsic’s infrastructure and tools to instantly verify information about individuals with technology instead of paper.

Trinsic is a set of tools and infrastructure that enables decentralized identity for individuals and organizations.

There are many ways that decentralized identity can be used beyond just customer login. This enables digital identity verification anywhere. In person, online, even offline.

Commit message:

ecosystems page (#176)
* improve readme

* added riley's documentation on ecosystem value

* added ecosystems intro

Co-authored-by: Michael Boyd <michael@trinsic.id>

docs/learn/index.md, after:

# What is Trinsic?
![Trust Triangle](/_static/images/trust-triangle.png)

Trinsic is a developer platform to exchange verifiable credentials.

Verifiable Credentials transform credentials, licenses, passes, and certificates into a W3C standard format that can be exchanged digitally and verified instantly. Unlike a paper document or html form, when information from a verifiable credential is shared, it can be instantly proven to be authentic.

They require no centralized authority or proprietary technology to use - verifiable credentials are built on interoperable standards  designed to be open, privacy-preserving, and distributed like the internet itself.

Hundreds of organizations of all sizes and industries use Trinsic’s infrastructure and tools to instantly verify information about individuals with technology instead of paper.

Trinsic is a set of tools and infrastructure that enables credentials to be exchanged between individuals and organizations.

There are many ways that verifiable credentials can be used beyond just customer login. This enables digital identity verification anywhere. In person, online, even offline.

We'll walk through the building blocks of how this is possible.

Next Steps:

- [What are Ecosystems?](./ecosystems.md)
- [Credentials](./credentials.md)
- [Passes](./passes.md)
- [Wallets](./wallets.md)
- [Underlying Tech](./tech.md)
