# Introduction

Organizations waste billions of dollars, years of time, and huge amounts of human ingenuity trying to establish trust with others by verifying, securing, and proving identity data. Whether this is done by manually verifying information about contained within paper and pdf documents, digitally through data aggregators that mine & sell people's data, asking trivia questions over the phone before giving access to a financial account, or sending photographs of sensitive government-issued documents, there has simply not been a good way to establish trust online. Costs like long security lines, repetitive paper forms, and identity theft, are the burdens of the lucky among us - there are still billions of people with no legally-recognized identity, which don't get to access most services to begin with.

Trinsic solves this problem by offering developers a set of tools for implementing Trust over IP. Establish trust online natively instead of using work-arounds using the latest in open authentication standards and networking protocols. 

With Trinsic, you can transform credentials, licenses, passes, and certificates into a W3C standard format that can be exchanged digitally and verified instantly by anyone called a "verifiable credential". Verifiable credentials come with some new superpowers. Unlike a paper document or html form, when information from a verifiable credential is shared, it can instantly be proven to be authentic; it's tamper-proof, its provenance is evident, its revocation status is known, and the legal & business policies it was issued under can be known. Because verifiable credentials are digital, they can be easily shared with only the minimum information needed for a use case. They also require no centralized authority or proprietary technology to use - verifiable credentials are built on interoperable standards  designed to be open, privacy-preserving, and distributed like the internet itself.

Hundreds of organizations of all sizes and industries use Trinsic’s infrastructure and tools to instantly verify information about individuals with technology instead of paper.
