docs/index.md, before:

---
hide:
  - toc
---
# Trinsic Documentation
## Issue and verify universally-accepted digital credentials.
Learn how to issue and verify universally-accepted digital credentials so that anywhere people go online or in-person, they can simply tap their phone, prove who they are, and get what they need.

[**Get started with Trinsic**](learn/index.md) - Learn about Trinsic, work through a basic implementation, plan a full implementation and learn about our tools you can use. 

[**Join the Beta**](early-adopter.md) - Our platform is still in beta. While our docs are public, you'll need a special environment to start using Trinsic at this time. We're excited to help you! Please contact us and we'll help you get started.
## Connect your app to Trinsic
Get up and running in the language of your choice or interact with Trinsic through your terminal.

[:octicons-terminal-16: **Use the CLI**](cli/index.md)
### Server-side SDKs
[:material-nodejs: Node](node/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-language-python: Python](python/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-microsoft: .NET](dotnet/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
### Client-side SDKs

[:fontawesome-brands-js-square: Web](web/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary } 

### Coming Soon

[:material-menu: Go](#){ .md-button }
[:material-language-ruby: Ruby](#){ .md-button  }
[:material-language-java: Java](#){ .md-button }
[:material-android: Android](#){ .md-button }
[:material-apple: iOS](#){ .md-button } 





## Additional Resources
[**Join the Community**](https://join.slack.com/t/trinsiccommunity/shared_invite/zt-pcsdy7kn-h4vtdPEpqQUlmirU8FFzSQ) - We have a growing community on Slack of people who are building with Trinsic. Join to ask questions and participate in our community events.

[**Follow our progress on Github**](https://github.com/trinsic-id) - Most of our work is done in the open. We love to collaborate with developers and are always open to feedback.

Commit message:

ecosystems page (#176)
* improve readme

* added riley's documentation on ecosystem value

* added ecosystems intro

Co-authored-by: Michael Boyd <michael@trinsic.id>

docs/index.md, after:

---
hide:
  - toc
---
# Trinsic Documentation
## Issue and verify universally-accepted digital credentials.
Welcome to Trinsic, the proof-of-anything platform. We are the leading developer platform for implementing verifiable credentials and decentralized identifiers, new web standards for building next-gen digital identity systems. 

Learn how to issue and verify universally-accepted digital credentials so that anywhere people go online or in-person, they can simply tap their phone, prove who they are, and get what they need.

[**Get started with Trinsic**](learn/index.md) - Learn about Trinsic, work through a basic implementation, plan a full implementation and learn about our tools you can use. 

[**Join the Beta**](early-adopter.md) - Our platform is still in beta. While our docs are public, you'll need a special environment to start using Trinsic at this time. We're excited to help you! Please contact us and we'll help you get started.
## Connect your app to Trinsic
Get up and running in the language of your choice or interact with Trinsic through your terminal.

[:octicons-terminal-16: **Use the CLI**](cli/index.md)
### Server-side SDKs
[:material-nodejs: Node](node/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-language-python: Python](python/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-microsoft: .NET](dotnet/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
### Client-side SDKs

[:fontawesome-brands-js-square: Web](web/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary } 

### Coming Soon

[:material-menu: Go](#){ .md-button }
[:material-language-ruby: Ruby](#){ .md-button  }
[:material-language-java: Java](#){ .md-button }
[:material-android: Android](#){ .md-button }
[:material-apple: iOS](#){ .md-button } 





## Additional Resources
[**Join the Community**](https://join.slack.com/t/trinsiccommunity/shared_invite/zt-pcsdy7kn-h4vtdPEpqQUlmirU8FFzSQ) - We have a growing community on Slack of people who are building with Trinsic. Join to ask questions and participate in our community events.

[**Follow our progress on Github**](https://github.com/trinsic-id) - Most of our work is done in the open. We love to collaborate with developers and are always open to feedback.
