web/README.md, before:

# Trinsic SDK for Browsers and Node

## Installation
```bash
npm install @trinsic/trinsic
```

For web usage, to reduce bundler warnings, add the following plugin to your webpack 5 plugin configuration:
```typescript
 new IgnorePlugin({ resourceRegExp: /^/u, contextRegExp: /grpc-web-node-http-transport/u })
```

## Documentation

See [documentation here](https://docs-v2.trinsic.id/)

## Maintainers

### Dev Environment Setup

Install the following requirements:

- Node.js
- [Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.1)
- `protoc` compiler for your platform - [installation info](https://grpc.io/docs/protoc-installation/)
- `grpc-web` plugin - see [this section](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web#code-generator-plugin) for installation info

```sh
npm install -g grpc-web prettier
grpc_tools_node_protoc --js_out=import_style=commonjs,binary:./dist --grpc_out=grpc_js:./dist --proto_path=../../proto ProviderService.proto
```

After this, you can run `npm install` and `npm build`.

The build script will generate the proto files by running the `Generate-Proto.ps1` script. You can also run this script manually.

* We use [prettier](https://prettier.io/) for code formatting.
* Any test marked with `.spec.ts` is used by node AND browser. Any test marked with `.test.ts` is only used by node, and can have node-specific functionality.
* We use the environment variable `TEST_SERVER_NODE_PROTOCOL` to determine which communication protocol node uses for testing.

Commit message:

Sdk 895 allow direct imports to support non-bundler web work (#902)

web/README.md, after:

# Trinsic SDK for Browsers and Node

## Installation
```bash
npm install @trinsic/trinsic
```

```ts
import {
    TrinsicService
} from "@trinsic/trinsic";
```

For bundlers that do not use the `"browser"` field, you can directly import the required web package with:
```ts
import { AccountService} from "@trinsic/trinsic/lib/browser";
````

## Documentation

See [documentation here](https://docs-v2.trinsic.id/)

## Maintainers

### Dev Environment Setup

Install the following requirements:

- Node.js
- [Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.1)
- `protoc` compiler for your platform - [installation info](https://grpc.io/docs/protoc-installation/)
- `grpc-web` plugin - see [this section](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web#code-generator-plugin) for installation info

```sh
npm install -g grpc-web prettier
grpc_tools_node_protoc --js_out=import_style=commonjs,binary:./dist --grpc_out=grpc_js:./dist --proto_path=../../proto ProviderService.proto
```

After this, you can run `npm install` and `npm build`.

The build script will generate the proto files by running the `Generate-Proto.ps1` script. You can also run this script manually.

* We use [prettier](https://prettier.io/) for code formatting.
* Any test marked with `.spec.ts` is used by node AND browser. Any test marked with `.test.ts` is only used by node, and can have node-specific functionality.
* We use the environment variable `TEST_SERVER_NODE_PROTOCOL` to determine which communication protocol node uses for testing.
